Add localization subproject docs (#7026)
kubernetes/community: sig-docs/localization-subproject/README.md

# Localization Subproject

The Kubernetes Localization Subproject is owned by [SIG-Docs](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-docs) and run by the [Subproject leads](#leadership).

> The Kubernetes documentation has been localized into serveral different languages. Each localization is owned by a team of individulas that speaks the language.  A localization team is a selfsufficent community responsible for prioritizing work, translating content, and reviewing and merging PRs into the kubernetes/website repo for their localization. 

Reviewer: Several nits.

```suggestion
The Kubernetes documentation has been localized into several different languages. Each localization is owned by a team of individuals that speaks the language.  A localization team is a self-sufficient community responsible for prioritizing work, translating content, and reviewing and merging PRs into the kubernetes/website repo for their localization. 
```

Author: updated

## Meetings

Regular Localization Meeting: The first Monday of the month at 15:00 UTC (biweekly). [Convert Your Timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=15:00&tz=UTC)

- [Meeting notes and Agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NwO1AN8Ea2zlK8uAdaDAKf1-LZDAFvSewIfrKqfl5No/edit#)
- [Meeting recordings](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL69nYSiGNLP3b5hlx0YV7Lo7DtckM84y8)

A localization team may also hold language specific meetings. If you are interested in attending a language specific meeting see the [Localization Teams](#localization-teams) section for details on how to contact each localization team.

## Subproject Leadership

- **Subproject lead:** [Abigail McCarthy](https://github.com/a-mccarthy)

- **Emeritus leads:** [Brad Topol](https://github.com/bradtopol)

## Contact

- Slack: [#sig-docs-localizations](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C0191RDKHU1) Each localiztion also has a language specific channel, noted [below](#localization-teams). 

> - Mailing list: 

Reviewer: We have this, but I don't think there is a mandate for the localization leads/contributors to join this group. I see very few members (~20) in the group below. A related topic for broader discussion is how we should be aligning the localization meeting & language-specific meeting invites to this google group so that we can ensure streamlining of comms. For sure, the former one has been created under SIG Docs official. 

Thoughts?

```suggestion
- Mailing list: https://groups.google.com/g/kubernetes-sig-docs-localization
```

Author: This is a good point @divya-mohan0209! We have the mailing list, but we don't use it too much, except for meeting reminders. And we don't require people to join it. 

I'm really not sure if we have the need for it, but maybe we can ask for feedback to see if folks would prefer to get communication in email or slack. But if we decide to use the localization mailing list, we should make sure folks join it. 

The localization meeting invite is through the main sig docs mailing list, not the localization mailing list.

## Responsibilities

The Localization Subproject lead is **responsible** for

- Leading subproject meetings and taking notes
- Driving collabrative discussions and decisions around localization processes and standards
- Ensuring the communication of localization and SIG Docs policy changes to localization teams
- Advocating for localization friendly practices within SIG Docs and broader Kubernetes community

> - Helping Localization teams understand SIG Docs processes, espcially when languages are starting out

Reviewer: Side Note: This is something that we should actively advocate for, as well. Despite documentation being present, there's a lot of confusion around how to start & I think we'd benefit from a maintainer track session at KubeCon EU/NA reg. this by one of the localization team maintainers.

Author: huge +1 on this. Doing a maintainer track is a good idea. Is this something we can still submit for Kubecon EU in April?

Reviewer: Yep, 27th January is our deadline, and I'd be happy to submit a nom for folks who are interested in presenting and have the bandwidth to do so during KubeCon

Reviewer: @a-mccarthy I just checked with @natalisucks and @reylejano, and they're also on board with this suggestion. However, this struck me a little late. Otherwise, we could have floated this during yesterday's meeting. WDYT about floating this news in the #sig-docs-localization channel and letting one of us know reg. the nomination?

Author: @divya-mohan0209 yes, i will ask if there is anyone interested in sharing their experiences!

> - Making sure that Localization process documentation is kept up tp date

Reviewer: Link to the docs.
```suggestion
- Making sure that [Localization process documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/localization/) is kept up to date
```

Author: updated

The Localization Subproject lead is **not responsible** for

> - Running localization efforts for a lanaguage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Running localization efforts for a language
```

- Dictating how localization teams do work or organize

> - Making decissions for localizations policies or teams without the localization team's input

Reviewer: Nit.
```suggestion
- Making decisions for localizations policies or teams without the localization team's input
```

Author: updated

| Portuguese | Ricardo Katz ([rikatz](https://github.com/rikatz)), Mauren Berti ([@stormqueen1990](https://github.com/stormqueen1990)), Edson C ([@edsoncelio](https://github.com/edsoncelio)) | https://kubernetes.io/pt-br/ | [#kubernetes-docs-pt](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CJ21AS0NA) | 
| Russian | Dmitry Shurupov ([@shurup](https://github.com/shurup)) | https://kubernetes.io/ru/ | [#kubernetes-docs-ru](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CPZ9KD9TN) |
| Spanish | Rael Garcia ([@raelga](https://github.com/raelga)), Victor Morales ([@electrocucaracha](https://github.com/electrocucaracha/)) | https://kubernetes.io/es/ | [#kubernetes-docs-es](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CH7GB2E3B) | 
| Ukrainian | Maksym Vlasov ([@MaxymVlasov](https://github.com/MaxymVlasov)) | https://kubernetes.io/uk/ | [#kubernetes-docs-uk](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CSKCYN138) | 
| Vietnamese | | https://kubernetes.io/vi/ | [#kubernetes-docs-vi](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CPHAWNF1Q) |  

"In progress" teams have started localization work, but are not yet live on the Kubernetes site.

## Localization team structure

> Anyone is open to start a new localization effort for any language or join an ongoing localization team. If you are interesting in learning more about specific localization requirements or processes see the [Localization Contributing Guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/localization/).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Anyone can start a new localization effort for any language or join an ongoing localization team. If you are interested in learning more about specific localization requirements or processes, see the [Localization Contributing Guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/localization/).  
```

Author: updated

> Localization team are self sufficient communities within SIG Docs. Localization teams are responsible for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Localization teams are self-sufficient communities within SIG Docs, and are responsible for
```

Author: updated

- Localizing content on kuberntes.io into their chosen language.  
- Timely reviews and merging PRs for their languages according to the [review and merge prcesses](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/review/) of the kubernetes/website repo.

> - Building a community that can support their localization efforts. Note you need at least two contributors to begin a localization team because contributors can't approve their own pull requests. You will likely need more contributors, reviewers, and approvers to create a sustainable localization effort.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Building a community that can support their localization efforts. Note that you need at least two contributors to begin a localization team because contributors can't approve their pull requests. You will likely need more contributors, reviewers, and approvers to create a sustainable localization effort.
```

Author: updated

Some recommended skills for localization leads include, 
* Excellent written and verbal skills in the given language.
* Experience with the kubernetes/website repo localization [branching strategy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/localization/#branching-strategy).
* Experience reviewing English language PRs to develop an understanding the review processes and repo structure. Its recommended that leaders participate in the SIG Docs [PR Wrangler Shadow Program](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/participate/pr-wranglers/#pr-wrangler-shadow-program).

## Localization processes

See the [Localization Contributing Guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/localization/) for full information on localization processes and policies. This page includes information on [starting a new localization](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/localization/#start-a-new-localization), [branching strageies](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/localization/#branching-strategy) for localizing content, and more. 

> 

Reviewer: We'd probably not want all these extra lines at the end.

Author: updated

# Localization Subproject

> The Kubernetes Localization Subproject is owned by [SIG-Docs](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-docs) and run by the [Subproject leads](#leadership).

Reviewer: nit.
```suggestion
The Kubernetes Localization Subproject is owned by [SIG Docs](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-docs) and run by the [Subproject leads](#leadership).
```

> The Kubernetes documentation has been localized into several different languages. Each localization is owned by a team of individuals that speaks the language. A localization team is a self-sufficient community responsible for prioritizing work, translating content, and reviewing and merging PRs into the kubernetes/website repo for their localization. 

Reviewer 3: Some possible edits:
The Kubernetes documentation is localized into several [or many] different languages.
Each localization is owned by a team of contributors that specialize in translating [localizing] the Kubernetes docs into a specific language.

The Localization Subproject's aim is to provide a place for localization teams to share ideas and standardize processes across all localizations. This page covers documentation, processes, and roles for the Kubernetes Localization teams and the Localization Subproject.

## Meetings

> Regular Localization Meeting: The first Monday of the month at 15:00 UTC (biweekly). [Convert Your Timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=15:00&tz=UTC)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regular Localization Meeting: The first Monday of the month at 15:00 UTC (biweekly). [Convert it to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=15:00&tz=UTC)
```

> Regular Localization Meeting: The first Monday of the month at 15:00 UTC (biweekly). [Convert it to your timezone](http://www.thetimezoneconverter.com/?t=15:00&tz=UTC)

Reviewer 4: The addition of biweekly here confuses me, since this is a monthly meeting – am I interpreting this incorrectly?

Author: updated!

- [Meeting recordings](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL69nYSiGNLP3b5hlx0YV7Lo7DtckM84y8)

A localization team may also hold language specific meetings. If you are interested in attending a language specific meeting see the [Localization Teams](#localization-teams) section for details on how to contact each localization team.

## Subproject Leadership

- **Subproject lead:** [Abigail McCarthy](https://github.com/a-mccarthy)

- **Emeritus leads:** [Brad Topol](https://github.com/bradtopol)

## Contact

- Slack: [#sig-docs-localizations](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/C0191RDKHU1) Each localization also has a language specific channel, noted [below](#localization-teams). 
- Mailing list: https://groups.google.com/g/kubernetes-sig-docs-localization

## Responsibilities

The Localization Subproject lead is **responsible** for

- Leading Subproject meetings and taking notes.
- Driving collaborative discussions and decisions around localization processes and standards.
- Ensuring the communication of localization and SIG Docs policy changes to localization teams.

> - Advocating for localization friendly practices within SIG Docs and broader Kubernetes community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Advocating for localization-friendly practices within SIG Docs and the broader Kubernetes community.
```

- Helping Localization teams understand SIG Docs processes, especially when languages are starting out
- Making sure that [Localization process documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/localization/) is kept up to date.

The Localization Subproject lead is **not responsible** for

> - Running localization efforts for a language

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Running localization efforts for a language.
```

> - Dictating how localization teams do work or organize

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Dictating how localization teams do work or organize.
```

> - Making decisions for localizations policies or teams without the localization team's input

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Making decisions for localizations policies or teams without the localization team's input.
```

> ### Skills and Experience Required 

Reviewer 5: IMHO it does not make sense to have 3rd heading section, if there is only one on that level. 
```suggestion
## Skills and Experience Required 
```

> - Familure with the [localization processes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/localization/).

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- Familiar with the [localization processes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/localization/).
```

Reviewer 6: Or: `Familiarity with the localization processes`

- Have strong written and verbal communication skills. 

> - A working knowledge of Github.

Reviewer 3: nit: GitHub

> - A working knowledge of Github

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- A working knowledge of Github.
```

- A working knowledge of kubernetes/website [review and merge processes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/review/).

> Time commitment for a a Localization lead is 1-2 hours per week.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Time commitment for a Localization lead is 1-2 hours per week.
```

> # Localization teams

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
## Localization teams
```
First level Heading should only be used for the Headline of the whole doc IMHO.

| Portuguese | Ricardo Katz ([rikatz](https://github.com/rikatz)), Mauren Berti ([@stormqueen1990](https://github.com/stormqueen1990)), Edson C ([@edsoncelio](https://github.com/edsoncelio)) | https://kubernetes.io/pt-br/ | [#kubernetes-docs-pt](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CJ21AS0NA) | 
| Russian | Dmitry Shurupov ([@shurup](https://github.com/shurup)) | https://kubernetes.io/ru/ | [#kubernetes-docs-ru](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CPZ9KD9TN) |
| Spanish | Rael Garcia ([@raelga](https://github.com/raelga)), Victor Morales ([@electrocucaracha](https://github.com/electrocucaracha/)) | https://kubernetes.io/es/ | [#kubernetes-docs-es](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CH7GB2E3B) | 
| Ukrainian | Maksym Vlasov ([@MaxymVlasov](https://github.com/MaxymVlasov)) | https://kubernetes.io/uk/ | [#kubernetes-docs-uk](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CSKCYN138) | 
| Vietnamese | | https://kubernetes.io/vi/ | [#kubernetes-docs-vi](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CPHAWNF1Q) |  

"In progress" teams have started localization work, but are not yet live on the Kubernetes site.

> ## Localization team structure

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
### Localization team structure
```

Anyone can start a new localization effort for any language or join an ongoing localization team. If you are interested in learning more about specific localization requirements or processes, see the [Localization Contributing Guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/localization/).  

Localization teams are self-sufficient communities within SIG Docs and are responsible for

- Localizing content on kubernetes.io into their chosen language.  

> - Timely reviews and merging PRs for their languages according to the [review and merge precesses](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/review/) of the kubernetes/website repo.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- Timely reviews and merging PRs for their languages according to the [review and merge processes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/review/) of the kubernetes/website repo.
```

- Making decisions for localizations policies or teams without the localization team's input.

## Skills and Experience Required 

- Familiar with the [localization processes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/localization/).
- Have strong written and verbal communication skills. 
- A working knowledge of GitHub.
- A working knowledge of kubernetes/website [review and merge processes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/review/).

Time commitment for a Localization lead is 1-2 hours per week.

## Localization teams

The following is a list of all localization teams. Localization teams are responsible for keeping this list up-to-date. 

| Language |  Leads | Docs Link | Slack Channel |
|--|--|--|--|
| Arabic | | In progress | [#kubernetes-docs-ar](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CP9FKRD51) |
| Bengali | Shahriyar Al Mustakim Mitul ([@mitul3737](https://github.com/mitul3737)) | In progress | [#kubernetes-docs-bn](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CQ0TD298C) |
| Chinese | Qiming Teng ([@tengqm](https://github.com/tengqm)) | https://kubernetes.io/zh-cn/ | [#kubernetes-docs-zh](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CE3LNFYJ1) | 

> | French | Rémy Léone ([@remyleone](https://github.com/remyleone)) | https://kubernetes.io/fr/ | [#kubernetes-docs-fr](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CG838BFT9) |

Author: @seokho-son I updated the table to align with your suggestion. Great idea! Can you take another look?

> | French | Rémy Léone ([@remyleone](https://github.com/remyleone)) | https://kubernetes.io/fr/ | [#kubernetes-docs-fr](https://kubernetes.slack.com/archives/CG838BFT9) |

Reviewer 7: @a-mccarthy Looks good to me ! :)

- Localizing content on kubernetes.io into their chosen language.  
- Timely reviews and merging PRs for their languages according to the [review and merge processes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/review/) of the kubernetes/website repo.
- Building a community that can support their localization efforts. Note that you need at least two contributors to begin a localization team because contributors can't approve their pull requests. You will likely need more contributors, reviewers, and approvers to create a sustainable localization effort.
- Organizing and prioritizing work to localize content.
- Understanding and following the [Kubernetes Code of Conduct](https://kubernetes.io/community/code-of-conduct/) within their teams. Questions or concerns around Code of Conduct violations should be raised to the SIG Docs, Localization Subproject leadership, or [Kubernetes Code of Conduct Committee](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/committee-code-of-conduct). 

The Localization Subproject leads and the SIG Docs leadership are always available to help localization teams by answering questions and providing feedback.

### Localization team leads

> A leader of a localization team is someone who is responsible for helping to guide the localization efforts for a given language. Its recommended that each localization team has at least 2 leads.   

Author: >Do we need to guide `It's recommended that each localization team has at least 2 leads.` ?
(according to the above current list, only few teams satisfy the recommendation)

I think its still good to recommend that there are at least 2 people as leads, even if we aren't able to staff it. I think its good to still advocate for having more leaders because we don't want to have a single point of failure for a team if someone needs to step away from the project and a gentle nudge for leaders to keep looking for more folks to help them do the work Its worded as a "recommendation" and not a requirement for a localization team thought because its not always possible or available to folks. 

> we can make the team lead as an official role
I'd like to make the team lead more of an official role within the project so that folks can get the proper recognition. I don't know the process for formalizing a role though in the community but I think if this was to be a more formal role, folks who wanted to be a lead would need to go through the a nomination/approval process like in the other roles within the community.

> A leader of a localization team is someone who is responsible for helping to guide the localization efforts for a given language. Its recommended that each localization team has at least 2 leads.   

Reviewer: @seokho-son & @a-mccarthy : 

- Recommending 2 people as leads here is appropriate because it is not just a recommendation. At the moment, it is a requirement for new localisations going forward so that we can ensure consistency wrt contributions and not just when it goes live.
- Acknowledging team leads/localization maintainers is an idea I'm 100% on board with. However, these are the challenges I foresee with making that a reality, 
  - Processes aren't uniform across all localization. There will be concerns around the implementation if we go forward without achieving uniformity there first.
  - We'll need to address other major questions that come with the formalisation of a role like - maintaining staffing, a consistent contributor pool, & ensuring necessary diversity across the board. For some localisations that are relatively smaller, this might not be a discussion we can actually have.
  - Additionally, formalised roles would typically go through the nomination/approval process, seeking community consensus and would significantly increase the barrier to getting localisations started and live.

> A leader of a localization team is someone who is responsible for helping to guide the localization efforts for a given language. Its recommended that each localization team has at least 2 leads.   

Reviewer 7: Hi @a-mccarthy @divya-mohan0209,
I concur with the recommendations outlined in the section. Additionally, I acknowledge @divya-mohan0209 's concerns regarding the formalization of roles. My suggestion is that we move forward with the current terminology as it stands, specifically the recommendation that `each localization team should have at least two leads`. Subsequently, we can assess the practicality of formalizing these roles across the existing teams.

Some recommended skills for localization leads include, 
* Excellent written and verbal skills in the given language.
* Experience with the kubernetes/website repo localization [branching strategy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/localization/#branching-strategy).

> * Experience reviewing English language PRs to develop an understanding the review processes and repo structure. Its recommended that leaders participate in the SIG Docs [PR Wrangler Shadow Program](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/participate/pr-wranglers/#pr-wrangler-shadow-program).

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
* Experience reviewing English language PRs to develop an understanding the review processes and repo structure. It is recommended that leaders participate in the SIG Docs [PR Wrangler Shadow Program](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/participate/pr-wranglers/#pr-wrangler-shadow-program).
```
